All characters begin their adventuring careers with money and equipment with which to start their adventuring career. Players will roll for how much money their character begins with, and then buy equipment with that money. All equipment is assumed to have been acquired before play starts. The basic unit of money in Warplock is the Silver Shilling. A number of other coins are also used with the following conversion rates:

*1 Gold Crown = 20 Silver Shillings = 240 Copper Pennies*

Note that actual coins and their conversion rates may differ in different regions, and elder Lustrian Gold may be perfectly pure, yet possess less value than coins with little to no gold content minted by some respectable Empire Graf.

Every character 
* Characters of Brass Status begin with 10d6×10 cp.
* Characters of Silver Status begin with 2d6×10 ss
* Characters of Gold Status begin with 2d6 gc
If a character starts above the first level, then they gain a starting amount of money for every level greater than one. For example, a fourth level character of Silver Status would begin with 8d6×10 ss.
# Buy Equipment
The Referee should inform the players if there are any restrictions, changes, or additions to the equipment tables before characters are created. Costs are given for both City and Rural areas (for these purposes a City is a settlement with a population of at least 1,000 people and Rural is any place at least one full day’s travel or more from a City). In the Wilderness, trade does not usually involve money. Since the characters’ equipment is considered to have been gathered during their travels prior to the start of play, new characters may use the less expensive prices when buying equipment.

All costs are considered to be for average situations, and a Referee can freely decide that some (or all) prices are more or less expensive based on location, culture, economic or political upheaval, strong guilds, etc. All characters are assumed to begin play with a decent set of traveling clothes appropriate for the weather conditions in the starting area of play at no cost.